AZURE NOTES:

For all Virtual Machines that have two or more instances deployed across two or more Availability Zones in the same Azure region, we guarantee you will have Virtual Machine Connectivity to at least one instance at least 99.99% of the time.
For all Virtual Machines that have two or more instances deployed in the same Availability Set or in the same Dedicated Host Group, we guarantee you will have Virtual Machine Connectivity to at least one instance at least 99.95% of the time.
For any Single Instance Virtual Machine using Premium SSD or Ultra Disk for all Operating System Disks and Data Disks, we guarantee you will have Virtual Machine Connectivity of at least 99.9%.
For any Single Instance Virtual Machine using Standard SSD Managed Disks for Operating System Disk and Data Disks, we guarantee you will have Virtual Machine Connectivity of at least 99.5%.
For any Single Instance Virtual Machine using Standard HDD Managed Disks for Operating System Disks and Data Disks, we guarantee you will have Virtual Machine Connectivity of at least 95%.

A Point-to-Site (P2S) VPN gateway connection lets you create a secure connection to your virtual network from an individual client computer. ... P2S VPN is also a useful solution to use instead of S2S VPN when you have only a few clients that need to connect to a VNet.

Azure Active directory uses:
Risk detection and remediation
Identity Protection identifies risks of many types, including:
Anonymous IP address use
Atypical travel
Malware linked IP address
Unfamiliar sign-in properties
Leaked credentials
Password spray

Network security groups(NSG);
You can use an Azure network security group to filter network traffic to and from Azure resources in an Azure virtual network. 
A network security group contains security rules that allow or deny inbound network traffic to, or outbound network traffic from, 
several types of Azure resources. For each rule, you can specify source and destination, port, and protocol.

Local Network:
A local network gateway represents the hardware or software VPN device in your local network. 
Use this with a connection to set up a site-to-site VPN connection between an Azure virtual network and your local network.

With the public cloud, you get pay-as-you-go pricing ג€" you pay only for what you use, no CapEx costs.
With the public cloud, you have self-service management. You are responsible for the deployment and configuration 
of the cloud resources such as virtual machines or web sites. The underlying hardware that hosts the cloud resources is managed by the cloud provider.

Azure App Service and Azure SQL databases are examples of Azure PaaS solutions

Azure Site Recovery helps ensure business continuity by keeping business apps and workloads running during outages. 
Site Recovery replicates workloads running on physical and virtual machines (VMs) from a primary site to a secondary location.

Azure AD:
An Azure AD tenant can have multiple subscriptions but an Azure subscription can only be associated with one Azure AD tenant.
If your subscription expires, you lose access to all the other resources associated with the subscription. However, the Azure AD directory remains in Azure. 
You can associate and manage the directory using a different Azure subscription.

Azure policies:
Azure policies can be used to define requirements for resource properties during deployment and for already existing resources. 
Azure Policy controls properties such as the types or locations of resources.
Azure Policy is a service in Azure that you use to create, assign, and manage policies. 
These policies enforce different rules and effects over your resources, so those resources stay compliant with your corporate standards 
and service level agreements. Azure Policy meets this need by evaluating your resources for non- compliance with assigned policies.
 All data stored by Azure Policy is encrypted at rest.
 
Azure subscription:
An Azure subscription is a container for Azure resources. It is also a boundary for permissions to resources and for billing. 
You are charged monthly for all resources in a subscription. A single Azure tenant (Azure Active Directory) can contain multiple Azure subscriptions.
You cannot merge two subscriptions into a single subscription. However, you can move some Azure resources from one subscription to another. 
You can also transfer ownership of a subscription and change the billing type for a subscription.


Resource group:
A resource group is a container that holds related resources for an Azure solution. The resource group can include all the resources for the solution,
or only those resources that you want to manage as a group.
To enable each department administrator to manage the Azure resources used by that department, 
you will need to create a separate subscription per department. You can then assign each department administrator as an administrator
for the subscription to enable them to manage all resources in that subscription.
A company can have multiple subscriptions and store resources in the different subscriptions. However, a resource instance can exist in only one subscription.
 
Microsoft Account:
You can use the same account to manage multiple subscriptions. You can create an additional subscription for your account in the Azure portal. 
You may want an additional subscription to avoid hitting subscription limits, to create separate environments for security, or to isolate data for compliance reasons.

Connecting on-prem vm's with azure: what to do?
To implement a solution that enables the client computers on your on-premises network to communicate to the Azure virtual machines, you need to configure a
VPN (Virtual Private Network) to connect the on-premises network to the Azure virtual network.
The Azure VPN device is known as a Virtual Network Gateway. The virtual network gateway needs to be located in a dedicated subnet in the Azure virtual network. This dedicated subnet is known as a gateway subnet and must be named 'GatewaySubnet'.
Note: a virtual network (answer D) is also required. However, as we already have virtual machines deployed in a Azure, we can assume that the virtual network is already in place

How to increase default DB Limit?
Many Azure resource have quote limits. The purpose of the quota limits is to help you control your Azure costs. However, it is common to require an increase to the default quota.
You can request a quota limit increase by opening a support request. In the support request, select 'Service and subscription limits (quotas)' for the Issue type,
 select your subscription and the service you want to increase the quota for. For this question, you would select 'SQL Database Managed Instance' as the quote type.
 
Azure Cosmos DB:
Azure Cosmos DB is Microsoft's globally distributed, multi-model database service. 
With a click of a button, Cosmos DB enables you to elastically and independently scale throughput and storage across any number of Azure regions worldwide.
Azure Cosmos DB is a great way to store unstructured and JSON data. Combined with Azure Functions, Cosmos DB makes storing data quick and easy with much
 less code than required for storing data in a relational database.
 
Azure Archive Storage:
Azure storage offers different access tiers: hot, cool and archive.
The archive access tier has the lowest storage cost. But it has higher data retrieval costs compared to the hot and cool tiers. Data in the archive tier can take several hours to retrieve.
While a blob is in archive storage, the blob data is offline and can't be read, overwritten, or modified. To read or download a blob in archive, you must first rehydrate it to an online tier.
Example usage scenarios for the archive access tier include:
✑ Long-term backup, secondary backup, and archival datasets
✑ Original (raw) data that must be preserved, even after it has been processed into final usable form.
✑ Compliance and archival data that needs to be stored for a long time and is hardly ever accessed.

Minimum required to achive 99.99%SLA (UP TIME):
You need a minimum of two virtual machines with each one located in a different availability zone.
Availability Zones is a high-availability offering that protects your applications and data from datacenter failures. 
Availability Zones are unique physical locations within an Azure region. Each zone is made up of one or more datacenters equipped with independent power, cooling, and networking. 
To ensure resiliency, there's a minimum of three separate zones in all enabled regions. The physical separation of Availability Zones within a region protects applications and 
data from datacenter failures. Zone-redundant services replicate your applications and data across Availability Zones to protect from single-points-of-failure. With Availability
Zones, Azure offers industry best 99.99% VM uptime SLA.

Azure Event Hubs:
Azure Event Hubs is a big data streaming platform and event ingestion service. It can receive and process millions of events per second. Data sent to an event hub can be transformed and stored by using any real-time analytics provider or batching/storage adapters.
Azure Event Hubs can be used to ingest, buffer, store, and process your stream in real time to get actionable insights. Event Hubs uses a partitioned consumer model, enabling multiple applications to process the stream concurrently and letting you control the speed of processing.
Azure Event Hubs can be used to capture your data in near-real time in an Azure Blob storage or Azure Data Lake Storageג€‰for long-term retention or micro-batch processing.

IaaS helps you reduce the cost and complexity of maintaining a physical server and its datacenter infrastructure. Virtual networks are part of the IaaS cloud service.

The TCO Calculator helps you estimate the cost savings over time of operating a solution in Azure compared to operating in an on-premises datacenter.

The Azure Pricing calculator allows you to estimate and configure according to your specific requirements. You will then receive a consolidated estimated
 price and a detailed breakdown of the costs associated with each resource you added to your solution.
 

Azure Reservations offers discounted prices on certain Azure services. Azure Reservations can save you up to 72 percent compared to pay-as-you-go prices. 
To receive a discount, you can reserve services and resources by paying in advance.Spending limits can suspend a subscription when the spend limit is reached.

The Trust Center showcases the Microsoft principles for maintaining data integrity in the cloud and how Microsoft implements and supports security, privacy, 
compliance, and transparency in all Microsoft cloud products and services.

Azure Policy is a service in Azure that enables you to create, assign, and manage policies that control or audit resources.

The Azure portal provides a GUI to view all the services you are using, create new services, configure your services, and view reports.

By using ARM templates, you can describe the resources you want to use in a declarative JSON format.

ARM is the deployment and management service for Azure. It provides a management layer that enables you to create, update, and delete resources in an Azure account.

Cloud Shell is an interactive, browser-accessible shell for managing Azure resources.

ARM templates define an application's infrastructure requirements for a repeatable deployment that is done in a consistent manner.
 A validation step ensures that all resources can be created in the proper order based on dependencies, in parallel and idempotent.
 
The Azure portal can run on devices that have the Android operating system installed. The browser can be any type, such as Internet Explorer 11, Chrome,
 Firefox, or Safari (all the latest versions). When you visit the portal, you will see Cloud Shell. 
Users can then access Bash and PowerShell from within Cloud Shell. You can use Bash and PowerShell to create Azure virtual machines.


Azure CLI allows you to use the Bash shell to perform administrative tasks. Bash is used in Linux environments, 
so a Linux administrator will probably be more comfortable performing command-line administration from Azure CLI.

After an outage, Service Health provides official incident reports called root cause analysis (RCA), which you can share with stakeholders.

Azure Advisor evaluates Azure resources and makes recommendations to help improve reliability, security, and performance, achieve operational excellence, and reduce costs.

Azure Monitor is a platform for collecting, analyzing, visualizing, and alerting based on metrics. Azure Monitor can log data from an entire Azure and on-premises environment.

You can drill down to the affected services, regions, and details to show how an event will affect you and what you must do. Most of these events occur 
without any impact to you and will not be shown. In a rare case that a reboot is required, Service Health allows you to choose when to perform the maintenance
 to minimize the downtime

Azure generates separate billing reports and invoices for each subscription so that you can organize and manage costs. Resource groups can be used to 
group costs, but you will not receive a separate invoice for each resource group. Management groups are used to efficiently manage access, policies, and 
compliance for subscriptions. You can set up billing profiles to roll up subscriptions into invoice sections, but this requires customization.

Region pairs allow the replication of Azure resources across geographies to help ensure that a secondary region is available in case of any disaster at the primary region.


Management groups can be used in environments that have multiple subscriptions to streamline the application of governance conditions.
Resource groups can be used to organize Azure resources.
Administrative units are used to delegate the administration of Azure AD resources, such as users and groups.


Virtual Machine Scale Sets are an Azure compute resource that you can use to deploy and manage and scale a set of identical virtual machines.


Service endpoints are used to expose Azure services to a virtual network, providing communication between the two. ExpressRoute is used to connect 
an on-premises network to Azure. NSGs allow you to configure inbound and outbound rules for virtual networks and virtual machines. Peering allows you
 to connect virtual networks together
 
Low storage costs and unlimited file formats make blob storage a good location to store backups and archives. Blob storage can be reached from anywhere
 by using an internet connection. Azure Disk Storage provides disks for Azure virtual machines. Azure Files supports mounting file storage shares.
 
Azure Files offers fully managed file shares in the cloud that are accessible via industry-standard Server Message Block (SMB) and Network File System (NFS)protocols.

Azure AD provides services for verifying identity and access to applications and resources. SSO enables you to remember a single username and password to access 
multiple applications and is available in Azure AD.

Conditional Access allows administrators to control, allow, or deny access to resources based on certain signals. You can require that access to certain applications 
only be allowed if the users are using an approved client application. MFA is a process whereby a user is prompted during the sign-in process for an additional form 
of identification. Examples include a code on their mobile phone or a fingerprint scan.

SR2303090060000446